# Variables

Variables are very important in any programming language, including ruby.

But before we talk about ruby's variables, let's talk about what a variable actually is.

\- A variable is used to store data, such as inputs, names, number, lives, ect. It can be transported everywhere, and can be changed to store new data. They are very important, and ruby variables are no exception.

Now, let's talk about how to define a variable in ruby.

## Defining a Variable

Ruby does things very similar to python, so if you know python, this is going to come easy to you. Here is a demonstration of this:

```ruby
lives = 5
```

As you can see, we defined a variable and gave it a value of five. If you just want to define a variable, but give it no value, you can give the variable of **`null`**. Here is how you do that:

```ruby
lives = nil
```

Ruby's equivalent of null is **`nil`**. Now that you have some knowledge of ruby variable, let's look at how you can **use** them.

## Using a variable

If you make a variable, there is a pretty big chance that you're going to have to use it. So, here is how you print a variable:

```ruby
lives = 5
puts "You have " + lives + "!"
```

We use the `+` operator to separate these, so it is added a string for variable to the `puts` statement to print out said string.

But if `+`'s aren't your thing, you can embed variables in your ruby code! In python, you do `print(f"{varname}")`. But in ruby, this is already put in, so this is how I do it:

```ruby
lives = 5
puts "You have #{lives}!"
```

Doing this allows you to put variables in your string without a plus, so you can put for words around it!

Now, if you are making a game, you most likely will need to take away lives from a player if they do something wrong, so here is how you do it!

```ruby
lives = 5
lives = lives - 1
puts "You now have #{lives}."
```

This gives us four lives, because we took one out of out five lives, this creates `5 - 1`. Which returns the number four. And we store the info in the same variable that had the info in the first place, so you don't have to make a new variable!

You can use different variable names for storing info, and you can print them!

Now that you know your stuff with variables, you can move onto functions!

### [Previous lesson](https://github.com/whippingdot/Language-Tutorials/blob/main/Ruby/1.%20Strings.md)

### variable lesson link here
