# Intro

Function's are super important in any coding language! Ruby is no exception to this, let's get started with ruby functions!

# Ruby Functions

Ruby functions are very similar to python's functions, you start it with the same keyword! But the only thing you do different, it you don't put a semicolon, just tab and that's it! Here is an example of it!

```ruby
def sayHello()
	puts "Hello World"
end
```

Let's break what just happend down.

We define a function using def, this is similar to python, and we define the function name this `()`. You can also put function paramiters in there. Then instead of a **`:`**. We don't put anything there! In fact, we just go to a new line and indent!. Then you can put your function code in there! When we finish our function, we go to a new line, make sure we go to the same indentation as out def statment (so you don't stop the wrong one), and you put an <code class= "ruby"> end </code> statments and we have now made a function! You can call on this function using `sayHello()`! Our function will be exacuted and we will have made a small little function!

# Function Paramiters

Paramiters are important in any functions. And ruby is smart enough to have them. Here is how you use them!

``` ruby
def sayHello(name)
  puts "Hello #{name}!"
end
```

Now that we have a small little function that says hello to the user that we put in the function paramiter. As you might have noticed, sadly ruby does not support types.