# Italics, Bold, Italic & Bold, Strikethrough

## Start

You can make text italicized, bolded, and both at the same time. This is pretty cool, and it lets you give emphasis and strengthen a point that you are writing.

## Italic

To make the text italic you can either use `_text_` or `*text*`.

### Code

```markdown
_Italic_ or _Italic_
```

### Preview

_Italic_ or _Italic_

## Bold

To create bold text, you can either use `__text__` or `**text**`. Bold text is useful for strengthening text or making something stand / **pop** out.

### Code

```markdown
**Bold** or **Bold**
```

### Preview

**Bold** or **Bold**

## Italic & Bold

You can also do Italic and Bold at the same time! There are many ways to do this. These ways are: `*__text__*`, `__*text*__`, `**_text_**`, `_**text**_`, `***text***`, or `___text___`.

### Code

```markdown
_**Both**_ & **_Both_** & **_Both_** & _**Both**_ & **_Both_** & **_Both_**
```

### Preview

_**Both**_ & **_Both_** & **_Both_** & _**Both**_ & **_Both_** & **_Both_**

**Note: In VS Code there is a glitch for the last one (`___Both___`) where it doesn't color code properly and it looks wrong. Ignore this as it still works the way it should. Also prettier will change all of the last 4 ones to match with the first two ones as the first two ones are the most common way they look.**

## All three together

To demonstrate a new thing to learn, I have written all three together:

### Code

```markdown
**Bold** & **Bold** \
_Italic_ & _Italic_ \
_**Both**_ & **_Both_** & **_Both_** & _**Both**_ & **_Both_** & **_Both_**
```

### Preview

**Bold** & **Bold** \
_Italic_ & _Italic_ \
_**Both**_ & **_Both_** & **_Both_** & _**Both**_ & **_Both_** & **_Both_**

Something you can see in the code is that I have added a `\` at the end of two lines. What this does, is it starts a new line. It is like the `\n` keyword in coding languages. Markdown doesn't automatically start a new line, and the only way to do that is to skip two lines which actually leaves a one-line gap between the two sentences or things. If we don't want that line, we can just add a space and a `\` at the end of the line.

## Strikethrough

You can also create strikethrough text in Markdown. I do like doing this when writing things not necessary or relevant to the topics. I also mostly conceal my jokes in strikethrough text to make them funnier.

### Code

```markdown
~~This is strikethrough-ed~~
```

### Preview

~~This is strikethrough-ed~~

# [NEXT](3.%20Links.md)

# [PREVIOUS](1.%20Headings.md)
