# DSMD

DSMD is a superset of Markdown. It gives you better, but a little harder to learn syntax. While sadly this tutorial can't be written in DSMD. We can write a tutorial. So, before we get into the tutorial, let's get into some info about DSMD!

# Info

DSMD is an acronym for DarkScript MarkDown. The way DSMD works is that it reads your DSMD code files, then translates and spits out an MD file. Sadly DSMD does not yet have errors. So make sure to have correct syntax, or some weird jank might happen. 

DSMD was created by [@darkdarcool](https://github.com/darkdarcool) in python. You can find the source code [here](https://github.com/darkdarcool/DSMD-Interpreter). You can read more about DSMD in the repo and the future ideas of the project. To use DSMD, you can go to the current beta release and download the source code files and run it in your computer's terminal, or you can fork the project on git and run it on replit! What are you waiting for, let's get you started!

# Prerequisites

You are going to need DSMD on your computer or on replit to use it. So, you can download the source code via releases to have it stored locally on your computer. Or you can fork the project and put in on replit. After you have done one of these things, you can edit README.DSMD. If you are running the code on replit, a replit file has already been made. If you are running it on your computer, you can use `python3 src/main.py`. Once you test it out and make sure the interpreter says it compile successfully, you're ready to go!

# [NEXT](https://github.com/whippingdot/Language-Tutorials/blob/main/DSMD/1.%20Headers.md)
