# Headers

All markdown langs and supersets have to give you a way to write text. So, DSMD had to make one. So they did. DSMD has similar(and and more advanced) syntax than to your average MD. But it is still in beta, so you should make sure you are typing everything correct so no compile errors happen(weird jank happens when you do that). So lets get started with the body of a header! Here is a sample of a header in DSMD:

```
# (Big header!)
```

Let's break it down. First we let the interpreter know that we want a header by using markdown's header character, a `#`. But you can't just put text after that, no, no, no, no. This is where DSMD get a little bit more complex and simple (and better) all at the same time. You then can put a `(` to show the text that you want to display. You can also leave notes like this:

```
# this is a note and will not be displayed(this is text that is not a note and will be shown)
```

Try it! 

When you are DONE writing text you want to be displayed, you can simply close up the text by adding a ')'. Then you can go all willy nilly on the text inside. These are **ALL** of the headers:

```
# (Header 1 which is the biggest)
## (Header 2)
### (Header 3)
#### (Header 4)
##### (Header 5 which is the smallest)
```

You can also make regular text tag:

```
> (This is regular sized text)
```

You might be wondering why DSMD just doesn't allow you to just put text NOT it a tag and just everywhere for it to be rendered. Well, that's where DSMD comes in with a suprise feature. 

Comments in markdown are hard to find. And a lot of them aren't even built in. But DSMD takes text that you leave out in the open(not in a tag) and makes it a comment. So if you were to do this:

```
> (This will be rendered)
I won't be rendered!
```

You can try it, it really won't be rendered. You can leave comments **EVERYWHERE** just by not putting it in a tag. Cool right. So, you have covered basic text, but lets talk about CODE. 

You can render code in markdown with syntax highlighting right? DSMD has that too! Here is a basic code example in DSMD:

```
$[python]print("Hello World");$
```

Cool right! And to organaize this, DSMD puts allows you to put all of the code you put in a code tag, all in one line, while the MD output is NOT in one line. To do this just simply put a semicolon after every statement, like this:

```
$[python]print("Hello ", end = "");print("world!");
```

You don't have to put a semicolon at the end of every statment in the code tag, but it is good practice to do so! While we have covered all of the current tags, there are still a lot of things you can put **IN** tag text to make a good MD. Which is what the next lesson is about. See you there!

# NEXT (PUT LINK HERE)
