# Setup

## Start

In C++ files, one can include other code, such as code for writing and/or reading the console. `#include <iostream>` includes a header in C++ which lets you use `std::cout` and `std::cin` which are the globals variables used for character output and character input. In some beginner programmer's programs, you may see `using namespace std;` at the starting too, which lets you access the standard namespace (`std`) without explicitly writing it in order to access it. This is useful, but it sometimes includes functions you don't need and you didn't know were there, resulting in you creating a function with the same name which is used as a function in the namespace.

C++ is a compiled language, as a programmer you write and read textual C++. On it's own, the text does nothing; it has to be compiled. Compilation is the process of generating machine code/binary from a high-level, human-readable language. This process is automated via compilers, programs that compile the text to executable programs.

The entry point of a program is always a function called `main`. `int main() { ... }` is where you will put your code. Your code goes inside the curly braces `{}`. This creates the function called "main," which is run when you run the compiled executable, and the code inside the braces is what will be run.

### Code

```cpp
#include <iostream>

int main()
{
  // Some code goes here. By the way this is a comment 😄
}
```

### Output

```shell
# Nothing. Also this is a comment in the shell.
```

## Comment

In the C++ code before I wrote a comment. A comment in C++ is written with a `// ...` or `/* ... */`, where `...` takes place of the comment's contents.
Comments are regularly used to document a piece of code's functionality, e.x.: why a decision was made, or why something is implemented in a particular way.

### Code

```cpp
int main()
{
  // This is a comment
  /*
  This
  is
  a
  multi-line
  comment
  */
}
```

### Output

```shell
# Nothing is outputted
```

# [Next](1.%20print.md)
