# Variables

## Start

Variables are containers which can hold values of a specific type. They are words which contain something in them, which you can call or take by just typing out the word. Variables in C++ are created by first typing out their type. Each variable has a type, and there are an infinite number of types that you can create. The language provides a few primitives types, which can be used to build larger, or more complicated types, here are a few:

- `bool`
- `char`
- `int`
- `float`
- `double`
- `short int`
- `unsigned int`
- `long int`
- `long long int`

## Explanation

The `bool` type means a boolean, which can only be `true` or `false`. The values it can be are those itself.
The `char` type means a (ASCII) character. `char` stands for character, which means one digit, letter, or symbol. `char` literals are encased in single quotes `''` (`'z'`).
The `int` variable type means an integer, which means a whole number.
The `float` variable type means a single-precision decimal value.
The `double` variable type means a double-precision decimal value. Float and double literals have a decimal, and optionally, decimal values (`3.0`).
The `short int` type means a short integer. It can usually hold integers as smaller than `int`, and may take less space.
The `unsigned int` type means an unsigned integer. Unsigned refers to how it lacks a sign, as in a `+` or `-` sign. Unsigned integers are always considered to be positive. For example, `4` is a valid value of `unsigned int`, whereas `-4` is not. It can hold (slightly) higher positive values, yet no negatives.
The `long int` variable type means a long integer, it can hold up to values as large as or larger than `int`.
The `long long int` variable type means a longer integer, it can hold up to values as large as or larger than `long int`.

## Qualifiers

The keywords `unsigned`, `long`, and `short`, among others, are not types by themselves, but are known as type qualifiers. The three mentioned can only be used on the `int` type, but they create a separate type entirely. For example, if you wanted a type that needs to hold a large positive number, you could mix `unsigned` with `long long`, creating `unsigned long long int`.

**Note: No primitive has infinite precision, for example, `short`s usually cannot hold values >= 65535, and `char` can only hold [ASCII](https://www.ascii-code.com) or [ASCII-Extended](https://www.ascii-code.com/#extendedASCIIDescription).**

## Declaration

You declare a variable by typing the variable type before the name of the variable. You then give an equal to sign and write the value you want the variable to contain.

### Code

```cpp
#include <iostream>

int main()
{
  bool boolean = true;
  char character = 'k';
  int number = -4;
  float decimal = 3.5;
  double big_decimal = 3.456;
  short int small_number = 2;
  unsigned int positive_number = 4;
  long int large_number = 7000000;
  long long int larger_number = 70000000;

  // ignore boolalpha, it will be mentioned later
  std::cout << std::boolalpha;

  std::cout
      << boolean << std::endl
      << character << std::endl
      << number << std::endl
      << decimal << std::endl
      << big_decimal << std::endl
      << small_number << std::endl
      << positive_number << std::endl
      << large_number << std::endl
      << larger_number << std::endl;
}
```

### Output

```shell
true
k
-4
3.5
3.456
2
4
7000000
70000000
```

# [NEXT](3.%20Operators.md)

# [PREVIOUS](1.%20Print.md)
