# Functions

## Start

Functions are useful for abstracting code, removing code implementation details, and creating reusable code. Functions are executable sections of code. They can be used and reused infinitely.

The main function, which is written as:

```cpp
int main()
{

}
```

is the default structure of how a function should be written. This means that the main function is a function! The syntax for a function is first the type of value the result of the function will give out, meaning that if you `return`(comes later) an integer at the end of the function, then the function is an int type. The main function is an int type as if code works it returns 0, and in the olden days you had to write `return 0` at the end of the function. 0 is an integer hence the `int main` in the function. main is what you call the main function as when you run the code, the code inside the main function is run.

### Code

```cpp
std::string concatenation()
{
  std::string hello = "hello ";
  std::string world = "world";

  return hello + world;
}
```

### Output

```shell
# Nothing
```

## Return

In the above example, we used `return`. If you haven't guessed already, return returns something at the end of a function. When the return statement is hit by the program, the function ends and gives out the thing returned. If you are assigning a variable to a function, the thing that is returned will be stored inside the variable.

### Code

```cpp
#include <iostream>

std::string concatenation()
{
  std::string hello = "hello ";
  std::string world = "world";

  return hello + world;
}

int main()
{
  std::string helloWorld = concatenation();

  std::cout << helloWorld << std::endl;
}
```

### Output

```shell
hello world
```

## Parameters / Arguments

Now to break down the complete function, we can first see the type of result the function returns. This will be `void` if the function does not return anything and it has no return statement. After this there is the name of the function, and after this, there are parentheses in which you add the parameters. Parameters are kind of confusing to explain, but I will do my best to explain it. When you define the function, in the parentheses there are placeholder variables with the variable's type and a placeholder name. When you call the function, if - in the function definition area - there are parameters, you have to include arguments, which are basically variables or something in the parentheses of the function call area, with the same type as stated in the definition of the placeholder variable in the function definition area. For example if the function has `std::string aSentence` in the function definition area in the parentheses, then when calling the function you have to include arguments, which can either be a direct string, or can be a variable which is a string. The name of the variable - if you use one - can be anything, but it has to be a variable that has already been defined. Now the function can use those variables. Basically in the function definition area, they will call the placeholder name of the variables and will do different operations with them. When the variables are given in the parentheses when the function is being called, those variables are used in the function wherever the placeholder name for them are called. If you still don't understand this you can use [C++ Reference](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/attributes) or you can look at the example below and try to understand. <!--This is again kinda confusing so it would be nice if you could change it...-->

### Code

```cpp
#include <iostream>

void printSomething(std::string aWord)
{
  std::cout << aWord << std::endl;
}

int main()
{
  std::string juice = "JUICE-WRLD";

  printSomething(juice);
  printSomething("Why are you gone...");
}
```

### Output

```shell
JUICE-WRLD
Why are you gone...
```

# [NEXT]()

# [PREVIOUS](5.%20Scoping.md)
