# Print

## Start

This markdown file, will show you how to use `print()`. This function prints out certain things to the console. Example:

### Code

```python
print("Hoi Boi")
```

### Output

```shell
Hoi Boi
```

## Concatenate

So, to concatenate text together, you can use `,` or `+` in the `print()` statement. Example:

### Code

```python
print("Hoi" + "BOI")
```

### Output

```shell
HoiBOI
```

### Code

```python
print("Hoi", "BOI")
```

### Output

```shell
Hoi BOI
```

You can clearly see the difference there - `+` adds the strings together directly without doing anything, so you have to add the spaces yourself, but with the `,` spaces are automatically added. Use `,` when you can, but use `+` when you need to.

## Sep

To change what divides the strings when using the `,` you can have a `sep=` property after another comma. As you can guess - the default sep value is a space.

### Code

```python
print("Hoi", "BOI", sep="~")
```

### Output

```shell
Hoi~BOI
```

## End

This is likely gonna be tricky to understand, as it isn't much used with regular print statements. Anyways, it is just like the `sep` property, you do the same, just that you put `,end=""`. The main idea about this property is that say you're making an animation (which you will probably won't do yet), this will be handy. It allows strings and symbols to be organized, and not un-organized. Tricky to explain, but like I said, you won't use this much.

### Code

```python
print(""" ________
|        |
|________|""",end="")
```

### Output

```shell
 ________
|        |
|________|
```

Note that I used triple quotations, meaning that I can make multi-line statements. Again, this isn't used much, so I wouldn't focus on this too much.

## `+`

One problem with `+` - because it doesn't do anything and **actually** adds the strings together, you can't add numbers and decimals with a string using this.

### Code

```python
print("Moi number is: " + 3)
```

### Output

```shell
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>
TypeError: can only concatenate str (not "int") to str
```

## Converting to string and int

This error can be fixed by setting the number to a string using the `str()` function, or by using commas like we said earlier. The `str()` changes the number into a string. You can also use `int()` to change a string which is a number into an integer.

### Code

```python
print("Moi number is: " + str(3))
```

### Output

```shell
Moi number is 3
```

## F Strings

Python 3.5 added a useful way of formatting strings called f-strings. Basically, they make it easier to put variables into strings. You don't have to worry about using the `str()` method when you use them.

### Code

```python
num1 = 3
num2 = 2
result = 5
print(f"{num1} + {num2} = {result}")
```

### Output

```shell
3 + 2 = 5
```

As you can see, we surrounded the values we wanted to replace with curly braces and placed an `f` before the first quotation mark of the string.

## Older F String - `.format()`

Another way to do the same thing that F Strings do, is to use `.format()`. This is an older method and it takes a few more words to do. F Strings are faster, but barely. In the code below, the `{0}` stands for the **first** value in the `.format()` which was `num1`. The other's are continuing, like `{1}` means the second and `{2}` means the third.

### Code

```python
num1 = 3
num2 = 2
result = 5
print("{0} + {1} = {2}".format(num1, num2, result))
```

### Output

```shell
3 + 2 = 5
```

## Extra: Comments

Comments in Python are written using a `#` followed by a space.

### Code

```python
# Tis is a comment
'''
This
is
a
multi-level
comment
'''
```

### Output

```shell
# Nothing is outputted. Also this is a comment in the shell
```

# [NEXT](2.%20variables.md)
